docs/reference/array/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Array
description: Array operations and transformations
---

# Array

Array operations and transformations

## Functions

- [`all`](./all): Checks whether the provided array has all elements that match the specified expression.
- [`any`](./any): Checks whether the provided array has any elements that match the specified expression.
- [`append`](./append): Appends elements to an array.
- [`distinct`](./distinct): Returns a new array with duplicate elements removed.
- [`filter`](./filter): Returns a new array with the elements of the input array that match the specified expression.
- [`find`](./find): Finds the first element in an array that matches the specified expression.
- [`findIndex`](./findIndex): Finds the index of the first element in the input array that satisfies the given Jexl expression.
- [`join`](./join): Joins elements of an array into a string.
- [`keys`](./keys): Returns the keys of an object as an array.
- [`map`](./map): Returns an array containing the results of applying the expression parameter to each value in the array parameter.
- [`mapField`](./mapField): Returns a new array with elements transformed by extracting a specific field.
- [`reduce`](./reduce): Returns an aggregated value derived from applying the function parameter successively to each value in array in combination with the result of the previous application of the function.
- [`reverse`](./reverse): Reverses the elements of an array.
- [`shuffle`](./shuffle): Shuffles the elements of an array randomly.
- [`sort`](./sort): Sorts the elements of an array.
- [`toObject`](./toObject): Creates a new object based on key-value pairs or string keys.

## Transforms

- [`all`](./all): Checks whether the provided array has all elements that match the specified expression.
- [`any`](./any): Checks whether the provided array has any elements that match the specified expression.
- [`append`](./append): Appends elements to an array.
- [`distinct`](./distinct): Returns a new array with duplicate elements removed.
- [`filter`](./filter): Returns a new array with the elements of the input array that match the specified expression.
- [`find`](./find): Finds the first element in an array that matches the specified expression.
- [`findIndex`](./findIndex): Finds the index of the first element in the input array that satisfies the given Jexl expression.
- [`join`](./join): Joins elements of an array into a string.
- [`keys`](./keys): Returns the keys of an object as an array.
- [`map`](./map): Returns an array containing the results of applying the expression parameter to each value in the array parameter.
- [`mapField`](./mapField): Returns a new array with elements transformed by extracting a specific field.
- [`reduce`](./reduce): Returns an aggregated value derived from applying the function parameter successively to each value in array in combination with the result of the previous application of the function.
- [`reverse`](./reverse): Reverses the elements of an array.
- [`shuffle`](./shuffle): Shuffles the elements of an array randomly.
- [`sort`](./sort): Sorts the elements of an array.
- [`toObject`](./toObject): Creates a new object based on key-value pairs or string keys.

Commit message:

feat(docs): add arrayRange function and documentation
- Introduced the `arrayRange` function to return a sub-array from a specified start index to an end index.
- Added detailed documentation for the `arrayRange` function, including parameters, return type, and examples.
- Created a new workflow to automatically regenerate documentation when changes are made to the grammar.
- Added a new markdown file for the `range` function reference.

docs/reference/array/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Array
description: Array operations and transformations
---

# Array

Array operations and transformations

## Functions

- [`all`](./all): Checks whether the provided array has all elements that match the specified expression.
- [`any`](./any): Checks whether the provided array has any elements that match the specified expression.
- [`append`](./append): Appends elements to an array.
- [`distinct`](./distinct): Returns a new array with duplicate elements removed.
- [`filter`](./filter): Returns a new array with the elements of the input array that match the specified expression.
- [`find`](./find): Finds the first element in an array that matches the specified expression.
- [`findIndex`](./findIndex): Finds the index of the first element in the input array that satisfies the given Jexl expression.
- [`join`](./join): Joins elements of an array into a string.
- [`keys`](./keys): Returns the keys of an object as an array.
- [`map`](./map): Returns an array containing the results of applying the expression parameter to each value in the array parameter.
- [`mapField`](./mapField): Returns a new array with elements transformed by extracting a specific field.
- [`range`](./range): Returns a sub-array from start index to end index.
- [`reduce`](./reduce): Returns an aggregated value derived from applying the function parameter successively to each value in array in combination with the result of the previous application of the function.
- [`reverse`](./reverse): Reverses the elements of an array.
- [`shuffle`](./shuffle): Shuffles the elements of an array randomly.
- [`sort`](./sort): Sorts the elements of an array.
- [`toObject`](./toObject): Creates a new object based on key-value pairs or string keys.

## Transforms

- [`all`](./all): Checks whether the provided array has all elements that match the specified expression.
- [`any`](./any): Checks whether the provided array has any elements that match the specified expression.
- [`append`](./append): Appends elements to an array.
- [`distinct`](./distinct): Returns a new array with duplicate elements removed.
- [`filter`](./filter): Returns a new array with the elements of the input array that match the specified expression.
- [`find`](./find): Finds the first element in an array that matches the specified expression.
- [`findIndex`](./findIndex): Finds the index of the first element in the input array that satisfies the given Jexl expression.
- [`join`](./join): Joins elements of an array into a string.
- [`keys`](./keys): Returns the keys of an object as an array.
- [`map`](./map): Returns an array containing the results of applying the expression parameter to each value in the array parameter.
- [`mapField`](./mapField): Returns a new array with elements transformed by extracting a specific field.
- [`range`](./range): Returns a sub-array from start index to end index.
- [`reduce`](./reduce): Returns an aggregated value derived from applying the function parameter successively to each value in array in combination with the result of the previous application of the function.
- [`reverse`](./reverse): Reverses the elements of an array.
- [`shuffle`](./shuffle): Shuffles the elements of an array randomly.
- [`sort`](./sort): Sorts the elements of an array.
- [`toObject`](./toObject): Creates a new object based on key-value pairs or string keys.
