docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: JEXL Extended Documentation
description: Complete guide to JEXL Extended across JavaScript, Python, and C# implementations
---

# JEXL Extended Documentation

Welcome to JEXL Extended, a powerful context-based expression parser and evaluator with 80+ built-in functions. Available in multiple programming languages with identical JEXL syntax.

## Available Implementations

### 🟨 JavaScript/TypeScript
- **Repository**: [jexl-extended](https://github.com/konnektr-io/jexl-extended)
- **Installation**: `npm install jexl-extended`
- **Documentation**: [JavaScript Guide](./javascript/)

### 🐍 Python  
- **Repository**: [pyjexl-extended](https://github.com/konnektr-io/pyjexl-extended)
- **Installation**: `pip install pyjexl-extended`
- **Documentation**: [Python Guide](./python/)

### 🔷 C#
- **Repository**: [JexlNet](https://github.com/konnektr-io/JexlNet)
- **Installation**: `Install-Package JexlNet`
- **Documentation**: [C# Guide](./csharp/)

## Quick Examples

The same JEXL expressions work across all implementations:

**JavaScript:**
```javascript
import jexl from 'jexl-extended';
const result = jexl.evalSync('user.name | uppercase', { user: { name: 'John' } });
// "JOHN"
```

**Python:**
```python
from pyjexl_extended import jexl
result = jexl.eval('user.name | uppercase', {'user': {'name': 'John'}})
# "JOHN"
```

**C#:**
```csharp
using JexlNet;
var result = Jexl.Eval("user.name | uppercase", new { user = new { name = "John" } });
// "JOHN"
```

## Universal Language Guide

The JEXL language syntax is identical across all implementations:

### 📖 [Language Reference](./language/)
- [Syntax Overview](./language/syntax) - Basic JEXL syntax rules
- [Data Types](./language/data-types) - Strings, numbers, arrays, objects
- [Operators](./language/operators) - Arithmetic, comparison, logical operators
- [Expressions](./language/expressions) - Complex expression patterns
- [Context and Variables](./language/context) - Working with data context

### � [Function Reference](./reference/)
Complete documentation for all 80+ functions:
- [Array Functions](./reference/array/) - Collection processing
- [String Functions](./reference/string/) - Text manipulation
- [Math Functions](./reference/math/) - Numerical operations
- [Date/Time Functions](./reference/datetime/) - Date handling
- [Utility Functions](./reference/utility/) - Helpers and conversions

## Implementation-Specific Guides

Choose your programming language for detailed usage instructions:

### � [JavaScript Implementation](./javascript/)
- Installation with npm/yarn
- Basic usage and integration patterns
- Monaco Editor setup with IntelliSense
- TypeScript support and type definitions
- Performance optimization techniques

### 🐍 [Python Implementation](./python/)
- Installation with pip
- Basic usage patterns
- Integration with Flask/Django
- Error handling strategies
- Performance considerations

### 🔷 [C# Implementation](./csharp/)
- NuGet package installation
- Basic usage with JsonNode
- ASP.NET Core integration
- Async/sync evaluation patterns
- Custom functions and transforms
- [String Functions](./reference/string/) - String manipulation and formatting
- [Math Functions](./reference/math/) - Mathematical operations and calculations
- [DateTime Functions](./reference/datetime/) - Date and time operations
- [Object Functions](./reference/object/) - Object manipulation and inspection
- [Conversion Functions](./reference/conversion/) - Convert between data types
- [Encoding Functions](./reference/encoding/) - Data encoding and formatting
- [Utility Functions](./reference/utility/) - General utility functions

## Key Features

- **🚀 80+ Built-in Functions** - String manipulation, math, arrays, objects, dates, and more
- **🎨 Monaco Editor Support** - Syntax highlighting, IntelliSense, and hover documentation  
- **📝 TypeScript Support** - Full type definitions included
- **🔧 Modular** - Use the entire library or import individual functions
- **🎮 Interactive Playground** - Try expressions online at [nikoraes.github.io/jexl-playground/](https://nikoraes.github.io/jexl-playground/)

## Examples

### Data Transformation
```javascript
// Transform an array of users
const users = [
  { name: "Alice", age: 28, department: "Engineering" },
  { name: "Bob", age: 32, department: "Marketing" },
  { name: "Charlie", age: 24, department: "Engineering" }
];

// Get names of engineers older than 25
jexl.evalSync('users|filter("value.department == \\"Engineering\\" && value.age > 25")|map("value.name")', { users });
// ["Alice"]
```

### String Processing
```javascript
// Process and format text
jexl.evalSync('"hello world" | uppercase | split(" ") | join("-")');
// "HELLO-WORLD"
```

### Mathematical Operations
```javascript
// Calculate statistics
jexl.evalSync('numbers | sum / length(numbers)', { numbers: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] });
// 3 (average)
```

## Contributing

JEXL Extended is open source. Contributions are welcome! Please see our GitHub repository for more information.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

feat: add interactive playground documentation and features overview

docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: JEXL Extended Documentation
description: Complete guide to JEXL Extended across JavaScript, Python, and C# implementations
---

# JEXL Extended Documentation

Welcome to JEXL Extended, a powerful context-based expression parser and evaluator with 80+ built-in functions. Available in multiple programming languages with identical JEXL syntax.

## Available Implementations

### 🟨 JavaScript/TypeScript
- **Repository**: [jexl-extended](https://github.com/konnektr-io/jexl-extended)
- **Installation**: `npm install jexl-extended`
- **Documentation**: [JavaScript Guide](./javascript/)

### 🐍 Python  
- **Repository**: [pyjexl-extended](https://github.com/konnektr-io/pyjexl-extended)
- **Installation**: `pip install pyjexl-extended`
- **Documentation**: [Python Guide](./python/)

### 🔷 C#
- **Repository**: [JexlNet](https://github.com/konnektr-io/JexlNet)
- **Installation**: `Install-Package JexlNet`
- **Documentation**: [C# Guide](./csharp/)

## Quick Examples

The same JEXL expressions work across all implementations:

**JavaScript:**
```javascript
import jexl from 'jexl-extended';
const result = jexl.evalSync('user.name | uppercase', { user: { name: 'John' } });
// "JOHN"
```

**Python:**
```python
from pyjexl_extended import jexl
result = jexl.eval('user.name | uppercase', {'user': {'name': 'John'}})
# "JOHN"
```

**C#:**
```csharp
using JexlNet;
var result = Jexl.Eval("user.name | uppercase", new { user = new { name = "John" } });
// "JOHN"
```

## Universal Language Guide

The JEXL language syntax is identical across all implementations:

### 📖 [Language Reference](./language/)
- [Syntax Overview](./language/syntax) - Basic JEXL syntax rules
- [Data Types](./language/data-types) - Strings, numbers, arrays, objects
- [Operators](./language/operators) - Arithmetic, comparison, logical operators
- [Expressions](./language/expressions) - Complex expression patterns
- [Context and Variables](./language/context) - Working with data context

### � [Function Reference](./reference/)
Complete documentation for all 80+ functions:
- [Array Functions](./reference/array/) - Collection processing
- [String Functions](./reference/string/) - Text manipulation
- [Math Functions](./reference/math/) - Numerical operations
- [Date/Time Functions](./reference/datetime/) - Date handling
- [Utility Functions](./reference/utility/) - Helpers and conversions

## Implementation-Specific Guides

Choose your programming language for detailed usage instructions:

### � [JavaScript Implementation](./javascript/)
- Installation with npm/yarn
- Basic usage and integration patterns
- Monaco Editor setup with IntelliSense
- TypeScript support and type definitions
- Performance optimization techniques

### 🐍 [Python Implementation](./python/)
- Installation with pip
- Basic usage patterns
- Integration with Flask/Django
- Error handling strategies
- Performance considerations

### 🔷 [C# Implementation](./csharp/)
- NuGet package installation
- Basic usage with JsonNode
- ASP.NET Core integration
- Async/sync evaluation patterns
- Custom functions and transforms
- [String Functions](./reference/string/) - String manipulation and formatting
- [Math Functions](./reference/math/) - Mathematical operations and calculations
- [DateTime Functions](./reference/datetime/) - Date and time operations
- [Object Functions](./reference/object/) - Object manipulation and inspection
- [Conversion Functions](./reference/conversion/) - Convert between data types
- [Encoding Functions](./reference/encoding/) - Data encoding and formatting
- [Utility Functions](./reference/utility/) - General utility functions

## 🎮 Interactive Playground

Try JEXL Extended expressions online with our interactive playground:

### [Launch Playground →](https://konnektr-io.github.io/jexl-playground/)

The playground features:
- **Live Expression Editor** - Monaco Editor with syntax highlighting and IntelliSense
- **Real-time Evaluation** - See results as you type
- **Sample Data** - Pre-loaded with example contexts
- **Save & Share** - Save your expressions for later
- **Examples Library** - Learn from practical examples

📖 [Playground Guide](./playground/) - Learn how to use all playground features

## Key Features

- **🚀 80+ Built-in Functions** - String manipulation, math, arrays, objects, dates, and more
- **🎨 Monaco Editor Support** - Syntax highlighting, IntelliSense, and hover documentation  
- **📝 TypeScript Support** - Full type definitions included
- **🔧 Modular** - Use the entire library or import individual functions

## Examples

### Data Transformation
```javascript
// Transform an array of users
const users = [
  { name: "Alice", age: 28, department: "Engineering" },
  { name: "Bob", age: 32, department: "Marketing" },
  { name: "Charlie", age: 24, department: "Engineering" }
];

// Get names of engineers older than 25
jexl.evalSync('users|filter("value.department == \\"Engineering\\" && value.age > 25")|map("value.name")', { users });
// ["Alice"]
```

### String Processing
```javascript
// Process and format text
jexl.evalSync('"hello world" | uppercase | split(" ") | join("-")');
// "HELLO-WORLD"
```

### Mathematical Operations
```javascript
// Calculate statistics
jexl.evalSync('numbers | sum / length(numbers)', { numbers: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] });
// 3 (average)
```

## Contributing

JEXL Extended is open source. Contributions are welcome! Please see our GitHub repository for more information.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.
