docs/reference/datetime/index.mdx, before:

---
title: DateTime
description: Date and time operations
---

# DateTime

Date and time operations

## Functions

- [`dateTimeAdd`](./dateTimeAdd): Adds a time range to a date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`dateTimeFormat`](./dateTimeFormat): Converts a date and time to a provided format.
- [`dateTimeToMillis`](./dateTimeToMillis): Parses the date and time in the ISO 8601 format and returns the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millis`](./millis): Returns the current date and time in milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millisToDateTime`](./millisToDateTime): Parses the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch or parses a string (with or without specified format) and returns the date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`now`](./now): Returns the current date and time in the ISO 8601 format.

## Transforms

- [`dateTimeAdd`](./dateTimeAdd): Adds a time range to a date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`dateTimeFormat`](./dateTimeFormat): Converts a date and time to a provided format.
- [`dateTimeToMillis`](./dateTimeToMillis): Parses the date and time in the ISO 8601 format and returns the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millisToDateTime`](./millisToDateTime): Parses the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch or parses a string (with or without specified format) and returns the date and time in the ISO 8601 format.

Commit message:

feat: add convertTimeZone function and documentation
- Implemented the convertTimeZone function to convert ISO datetime strings to a specified timezone, accounting for daylight savings.
- Updated completion documentation for the convertTimeZone function in the Monaco editor.
- Added detailed JEXL documentation for the convertTimeZone function, including parameters, return types, and usage examples.

docs/reference/datetime/index.mdx, after:

---
title: DateTime
description: Date and time operations
---

# DateTime

Date and time operations

## Functions

- [`convertTimeZone`](./convertTimeZone): Converts an ISO datetime string to a target timezone, handling daylight savings, and returns an ISO string with the correct offset.
- [`dateTimeAdd`](./dateTimeAdd): Adds a time range to a date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`dateTimeFormat`](./dateTimeFormat): Converts a date and time to a provided format.
- [`dateTimeToMillis`](./dateTimeToMillis): Parses the date and time in the ISO 8601 format and returns the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millis`](./millis): Returns the current date and time in milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millisToDateTime`](./millisToDateTime): Parses the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch or parses a string (with or without specified format) and returns the date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`now`](./now): Returns the current date and time in the ISO 8601 format.

## Transforms

- [`convertTimeZone`](./convertTimeZone): Converts an ISO datetime string to a target timezone, handling daylight savings, and returns an ISO string with the correct offset.
- [`dateTimeAdd`](./dateTimeAdd): Adds a time range to a date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
- [`dateTimeFormat`](./dateTimeFormat): Converts a date and time to a provided format.
- [`dateTimeToMillis`](./dateTimeToMillis): Parses the date and time in the ISO 8601 format and returns the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch.
- [`millisToDateTime`](./millisToDateTime): Parses the number of milliseconds since the Unix epoch or parses a string (with or without specified format) and returns the date and time in the ISO 8601 format.
